co-cooling versus inbound marketing
which is best
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
the top 100 B2B marketing podcast
business growth show and if you haven't
yet check out my weekly email where I
share actual website and masking tips
useful podcasts goodies resources and
more to kick off your week with a bang
why not give it a shot over at
businessgrowth dot email so today's
episode is a red hot recent event hosted
by air marketing where we go at it and
we decide once and for all which is the
very best strategy for your business is
it cold Outreach cold cooling or inbound
marketing myself and three other
industry experts go at it I'm on team
inbound let's jump in and see what you
think I am joined by four brilliant
people
um James key Sam Dunning Jerry Hill and
Justin Rowe they'll do their own intros
in a minute we'll try and rock it past
this bit really quickly and today we
have our great sales debate
um inbound marketing versus outbound
cold calling where do you want to spend
your money a what's the most effective
Channel what's better okay we know in
real life it doesn't quite work like
that but for the sake of today we've got
two teams two people are passionate
about their Channel and their
go-to-market um strategy and are going
to argue the hell out of why it's the
best route to go in this debate
um but before we get into that we're
joined by a very special guest today Mr
James ski who is taking my chair sat off
me for the month this is a topic that I
felt so passionately about I wanted to
get out of the chair seat and get in and
start debating it so my good friend and
trustee presenter James ski is going to
step in and share the conversation for
today I'm sure he'll do a fantastic job
so James over to you to take control of
the conversation and get us kicked off
for the day
super excited about this debate I'm
surprised you didn't try and clone
yourself Owen
um fortunately you've got a better
version today so I'm looking forward to
hosting
um this important debate because it's
critical to all our successes on how
effective we are building our go-to
Market strategies and when considering
the best channels to deliver success
we've got our team of Owen Richards and
Jerry Hill that are focused on the power
the Beauty and the effectiveness of cold
calling and going outbound on the phone
and then we've got Sam Dunning and
Justin Rowe who are going to be talking
about the Beauty and the power of
inbound marketing and why that is much
more effective and so the scenario that
I want you to keep in your mind is you
know if you had a pot of money let's say
ten thousand pounds or ten thousand
dollars whatever it might be and you had
to set out and invest think faith in one
and only one of these channels what
would it be so you've got a 10K per
month to invest in one of these channels
so I want to kick off um the debate with
um uh just getting the individuals to
introduce themselves and then we're
gonna go and kick off with the first
question so I'd love to hear from Sam
Dunning first please
Thanks James so big up team inbound
first of all
um but yeah I'm co-owner at
webchoiceuk.com we build websites and
SEO strategies for B2B companies that
generate leads and sales and also host a
B2B marketing podcast business Grow Show
great thanks for being here cheers Sam
Justin
I am Justin Rowe founder and CMO of
impactable a LinkedIn ads agency uh and
I am 14 inbound because that is how we
get all of our leads and revenue amazing
and then team cold calling outbound team
Jerry Hill yeah Jerry Hill RVP for
connectors still in Europe uh
fundamentally help scale ups and market
dominance dominant companies curate
market dominance nice Owen
I mean Richard's founder and CEO of air
marketing we run outbound SDR programs
that lean heavily on cold calling and to
generate pipeline for for for businesses
who want to grow Revenue
amazing so a great set of experts to
really give you the listener
um perspective just a shout out to JC JD
Garcia are coming in on the comments uh
do add your comments to the stream
um because we will bring in the
questions
um for our panelists because we want to
get your perspective so shout out to
everybody that's um getting involved as
we build this and also make sure you
share the link on your channels so you
can engage um with more of your
connections
um and relationships out there so let's
kick off with um what I'm Keen to hear
first starting with the outbound team
is you know what is what are your top
reasons uh for choosing outbounds to be
your success Channel
do you want to go first yeah we're going
team outbound Owen I thought I was the
host
we are outbound no sorry team inbound
I thought you said you were an upgrade
I'll get confused with my own language
sorry I'm starting with Team inbound uh
Team inbound Sam do you want to go first
why am I team inbound well we we very
much practice what we preacher like just
like Justin all of our all of our
business now comes inbound primarily for
us through organic search so if you
search terms like web development
company we're up top
um and that's what we're selling we're
selling SEO we're selling websites to
attract people that actively need your
product or your service that have intent
for that product and service they search
for on Google they find your website
they convert on your website and get in
touch that's a that's a one-liner on why
you should go inbound amazing Justin
the biggest thing for me about the
inbound is you're building an engine
that continues to produce even if you
stop putting in effort on a daily basis
so that's my biggest thing is if you
stop cold calling cold emailing for a
whole month you watch things kind of dry
up but if you put in the work for
inbound you create a machine you can
stop uh for a month or two and not only
will it continue but sometimes they'll
even pick up momentum
easy easy So Justin's already gone in
with the juggler that
um inbound is easier and better work uh
you don't have to work so hard for it
once it's up and running
um who who's who's going to counter that
on the outbound team yeah I'll go
um outbound significantly has low
barriers to entry anybody with a sheet
of names an email address and a phone
number can get started immediately you
don't need to structure particularly
against that I think the second thing is
something that is completely Converse to
Sam's perspective which is servicing the
people who are in market right now
companies want to be Market dominant
they need to learn who's not in market
right now three percent of the B2B
Market is in market right now what about
the other 97 of the market how do you
learn about them
interesting perspective Owen love that
do you know I was going to say it's
funny the inbound guys gave really short
answers because I think they expect
everyone else to have done the research
for them I'm not sure about that but
that was maybe one of my one of my
hypotheses
um I think from my perspective there's
two things that Jerry's hit the nail on
the head there with the I call it under
the iceberg there are people looking
that will come to you through it through
inbound but there's a big chunk of the
market they don't know what you do if
you're in a category that that people
don't know that's a category yet if you
provide a service they're not aware of
how on Earth do they become an inbound
inquiry through
um through something that's not that
that's a lot sort of more gentle in
terms of you know on your feed instead
of in your ear
um so that's that's one I think from a
quality perspective we've always been
big Believers that you've got more
control over the type of inbound lead
you can you can um provide into your
sales team because you can qualify
people out
um through through a conversation
whereas for us inbound leads coming in
there's a hell of a lot of you've got to
talk throughout the week from the chaff
um anybody can click an inbound form not
everybody can be booked the time with an
AE they've got to earn that right
through outbound and then also the
scalable piece so to to pick a channel
as an example if I'm running a PPC
campaign there are only so many people
searching for that service and it kind
of feeds into the the percentage of
market at any one time you get to the
point where you're spending 10K a month
you might go to 20 but not get any
better performance whereas once you nail
outbound for me it becomes to get more
and more scalable so far easy to far
easier to control as you scale it and
those would be my three top reasons so
it's interesting um I'm already going to
go off uh subscripts a little bit
because there's a couple of things that
Owen mentioned there from
um control and scalability so you know
Sam do do you feel that you have the
same control over the success of inbound
from your SEO strategies that you
implement massively so just to pick for
in both Owens and Jerry's argument
straight away Jerry said without bound
you can get a list of names and numbers
and call them right away well in this
day and age you can't in fact I ran an
experiment just to take the Mickey out
of outbound recently where I got a list
of 50 numbers and I called all 50 and
none of them went through to decision
makers this was a date of B2B list that
I bought and none of the businesses
it literally went there so that's one
example also three percent you're you're
right only a small percentage of your
your target market or your target ICP
idle client profile will be in Market to
buy but that percentage could be huge
depending on your industry and also
that's only if you're going after direct
intent so that's only if you're trying
to capture them on a Google search
engine with paid ads organic search we
can chat about this in a minute building
demand just like you do without van
there's a massive inbound way to build
demand to create awareness to educate
the market so you become the go-to brand
because you're being a useful resource
you're the only choice
I like that what would you add to that
Justin yeah I would just say the idea
that inbound is mostly focusing on the
three percent that are ready to convert
I think ignores a huge part of it where
to me inbound is a creation of organic
systems as well like our YouTube channel
was an inbound kind of system that we're
creating it's an organic community and
that's serving the 97 who aren't don't
know there's a problem don't want a
solution yet and it it introduces them
to the problem it nurtures them through
and then when they are ready to buy yes
you know they'll come SEO organic or
direct search and they'll come through
those traditional channels but uh to me
the organic communities that you build
in pockets they service they'll the
whole you know those who uh the 97 and
the three percent so I do think we have
more control over that funnel than just
you know trying to get that bottom
it sounds to me that there's much more
scale uh in inbounds and um Justin
mentioned earlier that that
um it works when
um when you're asleep so like Jerry how
how do you deliver
um outbound calls when you were asleep
um right so that's fundamentally
something you can't can't control and
there is some moments of scalability but
I actually think it comes back to the
artifact of what a business to business
sales conversation is intended to do and
that's to curate trust and Trust at
scale is hard to come by in digital you
just simply can't trust in digital in
the way that you can with the human
voice now some really interesting
science that my CEO Chris Beal talks
about a lot here which is trust in the
human brain is processed in bits of
information per second right similar to
a computer in that core part of your
brain now written word digital content
anything that requires effort on behalf
of the person consuming that content you
probably need 100 to 200 times more
content to process at the same level of
trust that you can deliver in a 30
second goal conversation the human voice
is the ultimate transmission vehicle for
scaling trust fast I can get a hundred
thousand bits of information into
somebody's brain using tone inflection
skill and relevancy in a way that I
simply can't package into any other
channel today so if I can solve the 50
to one dance connect issue that Sam had
which I can but this isn't an avatorial
and I can scale the number of
conversations that I can imprint on
somebody's brain then I can develop and
design nurturing systems from the
outcome of the conversation that I had
with my intended Prospect
and then that leads to an unintended
consequence which is cold conversation
at scale can actually drive and develop
an inbound Loop feedback loop fly
mechanism that we often don't talk about
most people think a cold call is simply
to get the meeting in front of them
today it's really not is to trigger the
fastest way to maneuver somebody from
zero trust to some degree of trust in
the form of a conversation and that's
where I find that the art and the
science come together when I hear people
talk about inbound it's fundamentally
about the measurable piece it's not
about the actual human to human composer
that's the bit that I find missing a lot
of inbound conversations interesting I I
mean what have you got to add to that
perspective yeah there's a couple of
points I think um on Sam's Point about
cold calling connect great I think
actually you know let's let's be friends
for a minute there's something valid
there and I I don't think it's any
different in digital inbound marketing
or or paid ads because ultimately you
pay to put the ad in front of people
they click on it you paid to put the
email in somebody's LinkedIn and many
don't respond but never do anything with
it and that's still time energy effort
budget that's getting wasted and I think
that's true of both channels to some
degree I think what we're looking at is
the overall effectiveness rather than
whether whether it's not and I think to
Sam's example you know yeah I guess it's
a bit like me writing bad copy I can
probably expect to get no response if
you're a if you're a cold caller by
trade and you're doing it well you
should have the right data the right
text that the right tools and be using
data that you know picks up the phone
more regularly
um so you know that's that's potentially
a an exceptional example rather than the
norm
um but I think that's absolutely that's
worth talking about
um I think also there's this piece about
the the advantage of of cold calling
actually feeding into your marketing
strategy so we talk about spending part
of our 10K on people that are going to
be nurtured and learn about us and be
educated over a long long period of time
if we can put them into marketing have a
major marketing having made a cold call
to them we've built some of that trust
we've got them further along the journey
and understanding the brand and then I
think the marketing can go on and be far
more effective and I don't think you
necessarily get that the other way
around because of course you can only
make a cold call with the first point of
contact otherwise otherwise it's not a
cold call so that there's a couple of
pieces there just to add into the mix
um so what would you say when it comes
to the Quality
um of the lead that's being generated on
inbound
um versus uh outbound Sam like where
where does quality of lead fall in your
experience of generating inbound leads
completely depends on the channel you
used to generate it but let's look at
this scenario so let's look at a high
intent Channel like Google search if
someone searches for I don't know best
product company let's say for example
best financial CRM company maybe you're
a SAS company right Financial CRM
whatever your result comes up top
um on the basis that someone really
needs a service they've searched on
Google they've then gone to your website
they go to your website they get a quick
idea of what you do how you help maybe
some of the clients you've serviced
maybe they look at some social proof
like client review videos case studies
maybe they check out your pricing page
so you know that your starting rates are
once they've consumed all this
information they've got an idea they
think yes the these rates fit what I can
do yes they've helped other similar
people okay I'm going to go ahead book A
book some time on the sales reps
calendar I'm going to book a time to
speak with cells so in that example the
prospects very very qualified because
they've got high intent they've gone to
Google they're aware they've got a
problem they need fixed they're aware
they need a solution for it they've gone
to your website they've self-qualified
themselves which doesn't happen on a
cocoa and they've booked time on the
sales rep Canada so that's an extremely
warm lead who we know has got budget so
in that scenario it's probably about 10
times better than a cold Prospect it was
probably very very early on in the sales
cycle so Sam said it Justin the inbound
leads are just better quality overall
um so yeah I would tend to agree with my
partner in crime Sam here um and in my
perspective it comes down to this so
what outbound said kind of triggered a
thought in me of you know you can it's
about trust that I think we can all
agree on is about trust now do I agree
that
30 seconds or five minutes on the phone
is going to be the best way to build the
trust I mean an expert outbound salesman
probably can do that more confidently
than most but when you're nurturing
someone through 90 days of organic
communities they consume eight YouTube
videos they see a dozen LinkedIn posts
then they search online and they see you
come up on page one that's third party
validation or when they search top
LinkedIn ads agencies and they find a a
list and they see you at the top of it
it's I think in my mind it's easier for
a prospect to trust you when other
people are telling them how great you
are versus you telling them how great
they are or you are can I can I jump
into that okay because I think you've
hit the note on the head there just I
totally agree with you but it took 90
days to get there my cocoa was five
minutes so we're not comparing apples
with apples if I got the chance to have
eight conversations with that person
over 90 days I backed myself for that
person to trust me and my business far
more than them reading eight pieces of
content over 90 days that were that they
engaged with so I think we we I I agree
with you entirely on those two scenarios
but I think they're different things I
think that you know what we're not doing
is comparing a three-month nurture
Journey that takes three months with a
five minute cold call we're we're
looking at what what's the you know
what's the the most powerful entry into
drive revenue and I think if we've got
three months to sit around and wait for
that opportunity to come in cool but I
guess most people are going to go and
start investing 10 grand a month they're
going to want to see something sooner
than that I'd like to sort of jump on
that I speak to a lot of customers every
single day who are trying to find ways
to diversify from purely inbound
strategies at the moment and diversify
their playbook and there's a reason for
it the two Keen reasons that it exists
is deal density tends to be lower with
inbound because they've researched they
understand category they understand
pricing Dynamics and they're ready and
they're prepared
whereas without bound Deals they might
take a little bit longer but
fundamentally the average deal value is
typically higher than an outbound sale
than it is in an inbound sale I think
the second area of sort of compounding
value for outbound in terms of Revenue
density especially in B2B sales today is
the idea that net revenue retention is
typically far greater in outbound
originated deals and against inbound
originated deals you know anybody who's
coming shopping on inbound isn't
fundamentally treating the proposition
as a commodity whereas anybody that's
taken the time to establish a
conversation with a complete stranger
about something that they probably knew
was a problem and then go through the
effort to go into a discovery meeting go
into the effort into a proof of concept
go to the effort to go into redlining
without any real conceptual idea that
they even had the problem is a worthier
customer because you've heightened
attention whereas inbound I just
facilitate I'm transactional I'm not
necessarily developing keying value in
relation to the big business goal that
we're trying to solve I think there's
one third thing that sort of really
needs to be understood a little bit and
that is the sort of cycle of retention
and renewal inside of B2B Dynamics today
there's a phenomenal Economist called
Chet Holmes
right and he's the guy that gave us the
three percent in market today number
right but the real reason that he's
driven from that is that most people are
replacing or displacing a business
service every 12 quarters right so
it's imperative that sellers use
conversations in a slightly different
way right the art of the cold
conversation is to complete the
conversation it's not necessary to get
the meeting right so what else can I
learn in a cold conversation I can learn
about who's relevant I can learn about
when timing is relevant I can learn
about the archetype of my company that
I'm selling to how they buy I can learn
about who the incumbents are I can learn
about all of these other things that are
only inherently packaged in the private
information that happens between me and
Justin row in a cold call I can't really
find any of that additional information
out any other way without either paying
through the nose for air or being on the
inside already okay something truly
important just hold back a little bit
just for airtime purposes and you can
tell who does the outbound
um ball activity
um so so no fantastic points but some
bold ones there I I we just get I just
want to bring in the debate from the
audience because we've got a fantastic
group of contributors we've heard from
Raj
um Gavin Blake Abigail Isabel Stefan
Matt and there's a debate going on in
the comments there's almost two debates
going on right now and if we could in
marketing bring on Isabelle Hughes
um she says surely someone coming to
your website and filling in a form to
learn more about your company is far
more likely to convert to pipeline
Revenue than when you're trying to
convince over the time over the phone so
she's set it there for inbounds
um that you've got a higher conversion
rate then uh then your your friends or
foes over at the outbound team like that
is that true Sam
if you use your website properly
um which not every B2B company does so
your website can quite literally be your
very best or your very worst salesperson
so going back to the start of the convo
your website literally is a 24 7 sales
rep but it can hinder your your company
or it can really help it so if you
position your website ultimately I've
interviewed 300 plus B2B buyers on my
podcast I talk to them every day most
B2B kind of marketers leaders don't have
much time they want to quickly head onto
your website get a quick idea of what
you do how you're going to help them
check results that you've helped similar
types of companies check your pricing
check within budget and on the basis all
those tick boxes are tick then they're
going to book a call or fill out a form
to speak with sales so if you're
skipping any of those stages I just
outlined if you're not sharing proof of
results how you help people case studies
an idea of pricing then you might get a
bunch of terrible leads but if you are
you're allowing these visitors to your
website to self-qualify tickle those
boxes then they can book Timeless sales
and then those leads are going to be
highly qualified they're going to have
good intent and the chances are they'll
close a much higher percentage as
opposed to outbound we're reaching out
to people cold a lot of CMOS a lot of
ctOS a lot of cios don't even take cold
calls so they'd much rather rather do
their research online whether that's a
search engine review site podcast learn
the information they need then go to
your website then speak to a sales rep
when they're informed when they're ready
I sort of fundamentally agree there but
it's quite interesting I'm working on a
problem set for what a really big tech
company at the moment and one of it's
around scripting for inbound
right they get so much inbound and
they've got a scripting mechanism for it
which sounds something like this
um Sam appreciate the conversation and
really really value you downloading XYZ
when we see this it buckets prospects
into one of three categories so the tire
kicking was born on a zoom call and just
seeing what's out there two starting to
research three I'm in market for
whatever it is I can solve for today
right why are they doing that because
they're getting so much of the inbound
but you're talking about mqls as opposed
to sqls I'm talking about inbounds that
come straight off a website and directly
to a sales rep
this is a sophisticated company it's
well capitalized it's a billion dollar
in revenue and they haven't got this
figured out yet right and all you're
making is that inbound is still a
prioritization exercise inside of a
company's processing a lot of
interesting series I think the second
thing is
um again you've got to be aware of the
fact that every sort of analogy that
you're speaking to at the moment is
about active buyer
essentially where most people's Revenue
comes from most people's Revenue comes
from because their Innovation companies
most companies aren't aware of the
problem or they're not aware of that
company's ability to service the problem
they don't have sophisticated marketeers
on 10K a month I'm sorry they just don't
they don't that's what they can resource
so how else
my son's got Sam wants to rebuttal that
yeah
that's a fair point but what I would say
is a lot of um B2B companies that want
to scale Revenue fast they're going to
be targeting high level decision makers
CMO CTO CIO cios Chief sales officers
whatever the sales officers might take
cold calls but the rest and probably
won't so a lot of these people want to
educate themselves they might not be in
market right now but this is where
Justin's technique techniques kick in
I.E adds in the feed on LinkedIn that
might educate people around case studies
problems you solve Etc podcasts industry
relevant podcasts where you can get the
information you need get the actual tips
YouTube channels putting out LinkedIn
organic content so over time you're
educating this Market that's not
receptive to cold course then when they
do come into Market that's when they
might search you on Google they might
head direct to your website they'll
request to raise their hands to speak to
themselves so we're both educating the
market not ready to speak to sales and
we're capturing the demand of the people
that are can I can I dive in
yeah I do I do honest there's a couple
of things on this I want to just go back
to the original question it's about
quality
um and and let's point something out
here that um I I don't fundamentally
agree with the idea of putting pricing
on a website for every set of this I'm
sure for some product base I want to buy
a microphone it costs this much yeah
fine of course but when it comes to
intangibles B2B Services I think what
you do is run the risk of buyers making
big assumptions without talking to a
human being and they need to be talking
to somebody to understand what you
actually get for that price what does it
look like and I think if you in my
experience where I've seen that put on a
website for our client base or for us
what we've ended up doing is reducing
the number of good quality as well as
poor quality leads that come in and
that's not always a good thing so
um I I do think you're right I think it
would qualify out a lot of the tire
kickers but I think you could
potentially qualify out some of the
right kind of clients as well I think
Sam's Point around you know the podcast
and that kind of stuff
um or you know they might not take a
cold call but they prefer to find out
about the information this way you've
got to remember they've got to know that
it exists so if you do something that
people buy normally anyway great but
there are so many people now who are
trying to sell something new that people
don't understand a banner ad or whatever
it might be in the same way as you could
argue that people won't take cold calls
they equally might not respond to to ads
on their screen and click how if you go
and talk to senior senior c-level
decision makers how many of them are
genuinely scrolling through Linkedin
with a view of oh I might just click on
this ad over here you know the the
percentages of people from ad view to ad
engagement is so low I'd argue probably
lower than the number of percentage of
people I speak to that I could convert
into a meeting and my final point on
this quality piece
is around inbound Tire kickers it
doesn't matter what you put in front of
writing in writing in front of people
there are lots of people who won't read
it who will ignore it who will make
their assumptions I said before when I
look at our inbound leads so we've got
SDR setting meeting for our AES we we
see over 80 of those meetings ending up
in an opportunity in a proposal on
inbound that number is a long way below
50 and we're going quality Quality
quality and I'm messaging our content is
about top of Market our content is about
you know we're educating through
podcasts and we're saying you know don't
don't use cheap outsourced telemarketing
companies overseas yet we still get
people phoning saying so it's about 15
pounds an hour right I'm comparing you
to this company in the Philippines
doesn't matter what you put in front of
them you're still going to get people
filling in that form who either what it
was a spur of the moment thought and
they won't answer the phone afterwards
or they're that they're looking for
something that you can't do because
they're not detailed people and I would
argue that the the the quality of
outbound is far more controllable
because you make the decision on who
goes through to the meeting not the the
not the inquiry form thanks for sharing
Owen I just want to pick up a point in
the audience
um Paul Lloyd has said do the c-suite
really what um want to spend hours
researching everything they buy Owens
point and Jerry's point is that you can
get straight to the conversation uncover
the needs and take them through to the
next step I mean basically no one's
doing any research at sea level isn't
that right Justin
yeah that that sounds about right
especially when you're talking about you
know Enterprise Solutions SAS Business
Solutions they're they're pretty much
impulse Shoppers they'll just uh you
know if you tell them the need exists
and it sounds good you know they'll
they'll ask their spouse if they can you
know make the purchase and then it just
happens
um I would say though that the the one
thing I think is is interesting here is
for outbound when they I do think that's
actually a really great way to serve the
97 Who's you know not currently
doesn't know there's a need that's
legitimate the problem though is once
you've exposed their they have a need
they're going to start researching and
they're going to come through inbound on
our side so I feel like unless you're
converting them on the call but like you
said that's three percent so that's
that's a very small point so for the
very for the other side you it sounds
like outbound kind of needs inbound to
to help that skill uh but the the
inbound doesn't necessarily need the
outbound to scale to the same degree but
I'll give you the speed point
actually does create an Unstoppable flow
of inbound providing your rapid I think
it makes inbound more effective yeah it
makes inbound a lot more effective so
whenever I speak to the CMO today
because ironically CMO spends more money
on connect and sell than they than the
CSO does with the CEO generally so we
find marketing team buys our product
more than anybody else
also depends on the stage of your
company right because it's a little bit
a lot of B2B tech companies especially
follow the Aaron Ross's predictable
Revenue model so they'll they'll jump
into it which I'm not slaying it too
much because it's worked for years but
U.S companies especially they'll pay up
to 60k dollars per SDR
and that's capturing perhaps some of the
top of the funnel so reaching out to
people cold like we we talked about the
connect rate on the cockles might not be
great it's going to take a while for
them to ramp up to actually get used to
reaching out cold in the meantime we
could run inbound marketing whether
that's paid ads review sites SEO
LinkedIn ads whatever campaigns we run
to our website we could be capturing
that market and depending on the size of
your Market that could be thousands and
thousands of prospects flooding your
inbound sales teams calendars filling
them up for months and months for the
first probably 24 36 months whilst that
outbound motion is probably still
getting set up for the first few months
so fundamentally companies are investing
tons and tons of money into 60k plus
sdrs depending on where they're located
put the same money into inbound your
sales reps calendars would be absolutely
flooded
so if that was true then why would why
would the the calendar problem exist why
were businesses like mine exist and why
were businesses like Ireland Zoo If
people could wave a magical wand and say
inbound covers all problems then would
solve the meeting booking problem
forever it works I believe where you've
got a known commodity that people are
actively seeking on a regular cycle
where you've got an unknown quantity an
innovation a new idea A New Perspective
a new company starting in life generally
speaking that's essentially where where
outbound is going to be where you get
your inflection point in your scale
because you need to learn what you don't
know inbound for me needs to be
optimized around a clear message that's
consistent succinct social evidence
social proof so many companies today
don't have any of that stuff right 42 of
pre-series a startups fail within 18
months because they can't get message
Market fit right and there's no amount
of PPC and SEO that's going to help them
calibrate on that whereas with a
well-structured list and a hypothesis
about who you can serve and the ability
to calibrate that evidence and re-pivot
and adjust you have a better chance of
survival for the 10K a month that you're
going to be spending to do the center so
I just want to move the conversation on
a little bit from an effort and reward
perspective like isn't it right uh on
out Banner in that it's just more effort
before you start seeing Rewards
withoutbound
I spoke to a client last week who came
to us and said we spent 24 Grand a month
on LinkedIn in ads last last month and
we've got three inquiries and I said
who's managing your LinkedIn ads they
said we've got three full-time staff
three full-time staff managing their
content do you know how many rewrites of
the ads that they've done
16 17 across the month they're testing
it every other day they're changing it
when it sees a thousand people so so I
think the short answer is no is it hard
to get right and I will give a
concession here yeah like everything
there's a skill and I think all four of
us are smart enough to say poor content
poor inbound marketing is going to get
you nothing poor cold calls is going to
get you nothing right
we all have to assume that it's done at
a at a minimum acceptable level for it
to work
but for me no I think that is it a
different kind of hard work yeah
absolutely you've got to you know you've
got to be prepared to be rejected you've
got to be resilient you've got to you
know you've got to deal with people that
don't want to talk to you right now and
all of that stuff is true but that
doesn't make the end result less
effective but I think the same is true
of inbound I think Justin's Point
eventually you can probably sleep and it
works yeah absolutely but if I'm a
startup and I've got 10K to invest in
something I'm not thinking about when I
can turn that off in 12 months time I'm
thinking about how can I derive Revenue
now in the most effective way the
fastest way so I'm not going to pretend
like it's easy because it's not but I
don't think you could say that of
inbound either I think the point here is
that it's no harder if you've got the
right skill set the right approach the
right data in fact it's quite enjoyable
it's pretty simple to understand there
isn't much that can go wrong you've got
to you know the metrics are easy to
understand the data is easy to
understand and it's repeatable whereas
in you know it in digital you can have
seasonal trends like for example a PPC
spend that in August
people aren't searching you've got 50
reduction in that search term because
people are away what do you do so some
Sam and Justin Owen seems to think that
um all these outbound callers out there
are perfect
um and they deliver on every call that
they make and that it guarantees an
excess
yeah it sounds quite easy like what yeah
what's the real effort involved on on
the inbound side
yeah we're all born as Benjamin dennehay
so it's no issue whatsoever
um but no jokes aside I mean I'll give
you an example so when I was at another
marketing company that we Scout we
basically bootstrapped I was we had no
cash in the bank at all so I cold called
for like the first two months solid just
to generate appointments and it was a
tough game like I was literally going
for a date list sweating my ass off like
morning till night booking these
appointments having to get the train up
to London and then some of them were
okay some of them weren't this is before
everything went and had we had this 10
grand a month
I wouldn't have need to do that because
that three percent of the market would
have been absolutely fine just in this
scenario I could have put we're a B2B
tech company so I could have just Chuck
Chuck that into some Google pay search
some paid review sites that would
probably be absolutely fine then people
having that attempt people literally
needing our service jump onto Google
type in the service see our website top
on the paid search review sites that
would have given us plenty leads so if I
could have flipped that it would have
saved me a lot of time a lot of hassle
it could have filled my calendar a
couple other sales reps calendar and
that's before even starting talking
about educating the market creating
demand building demand building brand
Affinity so um that's my instant results
so
inbound is better for health
health and wealth so like you know
there's a there's a clear statement
there yourself
that that you know inbound is is much
better for
um your business's health and wealth
like the upside is there
um like you know what why really would
you consider outbounding inbound is
working so successfully with that 10K
budget because I think people are
fundamentally frustrated with gear
towards content that they feel is
advertorial
um
I'm not going to talk about my personal
experiences but I'm just curious to sort
of get a sense of what people's thoughts
are on LinkedIn conversion right now you
know I heard one anecdote recently that
said that the LinkedIn advert I'd
investment was less than half a percent
yield
which is just to me something that I
can't compute in my head spend money to
get half a percent of my time back
whereas I know that if I can execute a
good cold call message I get five
percent conversion minimum up to 10
conversion
right I think the second thing is people
have to understand their swim Lanes
right and I think you know marketing is
a complex sort of proposition to solve
sales to Market things are complex thing
to solve the dream for all of us is to
find this fully stitched integrated
marketing sales engine which is
non-competitive but I think one of the
fundamental problems that still exists
today for the majority of B2B companies
is the fact that inbound language is
still very sort of category product
and and product Centric whereas sales
language is a lot more humanized it's a
lot less specific to the product more
interesting in terms of stimulating
curiosity and thinking through whether
or not people should even engage with
you at all and that to me is the most
valuable information you can get I I
struggle to measure proxy but I do know
how to measure hard facts and inputs and
and what I found when I was interim
croing for a while because I talk to
people about digital marketing and of
course I wanted to do it I'm
fundamentally Lazy by the way so
anything that made my time if you're
working inbounds you don't have to work
for a month and it still does it for you
this is the point anytime I had somebody
try to explain the mechanics to me they
never really could I felt like I was a
complete model in a world of wizards and
and that that made it very very very
hard for me to understand whereas if you
give me a list you give me a CRM and you
give me a competent rep with a brilliant
message I know that I can have an
immediate impact with that and I've got
control over that I'm not Outsourcing it
to the worlds of wizards everybody
so for a lot of sales leaders like me or
a lot of people in the world like me and
there are a lot more of them than you
think there are
understanding what goes under the hood
of of inbound is exceptionally after a
lot of people to even comprehend
so you've got to live where your
prospect lives in a lot of instances and
there's still a lot of prospects believe
it or not who live in the phone
so
um Justin what like there's a couple of
points to Jerry about this kind of
humanization and the fact that you can
really more effectively connect with
someone over a conversation
um and you know
is is what you put on landing pages what
you put out on your marketing not
resonating to your audience like is it
all just Feature Feature Feature I mean
do you use video for example to humanize
um what you do like tell us don't give
them the answers James
I tend to like to just hit them
with ads and then I retarget them and
just Club them like a baby seal with
more ads until they just submit and buy
I find that's the best approach
um and if we can just do that and uh I
did wanna I did want to rebuttal
um he was throwing shade at uh people's
aversion to ads but I think the
assumption is what they like being cold
called uh so I don't think I think
there's an aversion to as there's an
aversion to being cold called but I
think the thing we can agree on is the
humanizing and so I would say there's
bad cold callers who say hello my name
is Justin and I am with impactable I can
get you 5x Roi on your spend and then
there's bad ads that are just features
features by by my my thought process on
ads in general and I also you know the
fact that digital ads and inbound is
more complex I'll give you that
um but I don't think just because a
smoke signal is easier to to understand
that that's going to be the most
effective approach to uh to marketing
either I think humanizing your brand is
the right idea I like to use videos I
like to use ads that don't look like ads
I like to use ads that deliver
guaranteed you know trust and
credibility here's our case studies
here's our testimonials here's us giving
expert advice on how to solve your
problem educate you about your pain
points it's not just here's our product
here's how much it costs you know I
don't treat B2B buying like Ecom where
it's just if we just retarget them with
price and discounts and features so I do
think either either one done poorly is
not going to work uh so yeah for the for
the inbound I would say that's a that's
a big sticking point is doing it right
humanizing your brand is good and
there's intermixing demand gen with
inbound marketing that creates that
ecosystem
what would you add Sam
yeah um so what I'd say is Jerry raised
quite an interesting point that like the
inbound magic is almost like Harry
Potter so some Muggles versus the
Wizards and then kind of Justin laid on
that with the humanizing which I agree
with but I think the issue is a lot of
marketers faces as well is they don't
actually know what their target clients
or their Idol client profile cares about
so I think the problem with a lot of
marketers and sales people as well it's
a bad cold callers bad marketers they
don't actually genuinely know what their
target clients care about and what I
mean by that is what are the top three
problems that they face I.E Target CMOS
you target ctOS you Target sales
directors what are the most frustrating
things that they care about and that's
what you should be leveraging these kind
of problems but not necessarily saying
we the three three bullet points on your
website homepage but or on your ad but
leveraging those in the content you
produce whether that's articles on your
site videos you produce podcasts
whatever and basically laying down kind
of how you can fix them ways around it
giving people ideas to fix them
themselves
um so really taking the time to speak to
your existing customers your kind of
best return prospects and all that kind
of stuff and then understanding kind of
what what is the things they want to fix
what do they care about why is it
important to them what have they already
tried to fix it and then leveraging
those points so you're marketing your
messaging your inbound engine can
actually be effective can speak to
prospects rather than trying to Ram
features and benefits down neck and also
using the language they use I try to
pick up on something you said there Sam
there's this not lean towards the
outbounds argument that you
that you speak
to your prospect first to understand
their problems
80 of which are with people that aren't
in your target market right yeah
I think you've made a really good point
there the human Conversation Piece um
comes first with cold calling I think it
comes at the end with within Mounds so
you know there's a there's a reversal of
order somewhat and I think back to my
point earlier Justin said about you know
I think inbound can
um support the cold calling but not
necessarily the other way around I'd be
temp I I know the answer to this and if
if they tell me the answer is different
I'll argue it if I said to Sam and
Justin here's a list of 100 people I've
spoken to would you rather Market to
them and we've qualified or would you
rather to Market Market to people we've
never spoken to before same sort of
profile same addressable Market I know
where we'd be putting our Focus from a
marketing perspective if we've got half
a brain so I think the argument goes
both ways for me I just want to take a
scenario
um and just look at a business that
wants to get going get going fast and I
think what both of us and this is both
sides of the argument are effectively
taking best case here and saying when we
do best case it's incredible um
um if you've got 10K a month to spend on
something and you're starting go to
market for the first time the chances of
you getting an incredible marketeer or
an Incredible sales person that's going
to go and do this for you a pretty slim
because you're starting out you've
probably not got the best employer brand
you know there's a lot of there's a lot
of testing that you've got to do with
both strategies one of the things that I
love about getting out of cold call and
this comes back to a point that Jerry
games early is that day one we're on the
phone talking to people we're learning
we're having human conversations we're
building trust we're learning we're
getting feedback we can still inform
marketing that we're doing without
spending our 10K we can do the free
stuff we can create content all that
kind of stuff but and I think there's a
good good argument there for marketing
by the way I shouldn't have given you
that sorry
um but the point here is that we're
learning fast and we're on it day two
I'm in the in the meeting I'm going
right I've spoken to 30 people this is
what they're telling me this is what's
working with our messaging this is not
that process is so much longer or so
much shorter sorry when you're out
having human conversations that are r2a
So Justin's example earlier of those
people reading eight bits of content
before they even make contact with you
and then making contact with you 90 days
later because you're at the top of a
list and they see you again and go oh
that's great brilliant the quality of
that inquiry is high back to my point
it's taken 90 days and in that time your
business has learned nothing it's only
at that point do you learn why is that
person is what it works what hasn't in
the meantime I've spoken to that person
five times and I've got two-way feedback
and I'm adapted recording this and and
it actually deploys coming back to the
sort of full cycle Loop or the the
flywheel Loop that I was talking about
so we had an aim a big company who has
one key account that's it that's his job
he sells one thing it's a Huntsman
right he's never penetrated Huntsman
before he's new to role he was able to
have like 25 conversations in two days
with 25 key stakeholders in the company
we'd never heard of that business in
spite of the fact that they've got huge
brand recognition recognition with a you
know 10 billion market cap so just on
that point Sam like literally you you
can't get that type of feedback that
quickly in inbound yeah but I think
Owen's talking about training sales reps
so what would you rather do spend I
don't know 200 Grand or maybe five sdrs
that might be some of them which might
be grads some of them might get bored
after 30 days some of them might not cut
it because they hate cold calling they
hate rejection they hate getting
screamed out down the phone so probably
a couple of those you've lost off the
bat meanwhile you can invest it in
capturing the demand of people that are
ready to speak to sales right now have a
much more enjoyable experience of
actually I've only got 10K a month um I
don't have 200 Grand you've talked about
trading sales reps they're quite
expensive I know actually trading sales
reps wasn't part of the conversation at
all that was using sales myself
right it wasn't about training the rep
it was how do I inculcate the
information and give that information
back to the organization so that you can
recalibrate that's where outbound is
actually the most useful use of outbound
selling time as it is if you don't go
and get meetings you get a lot of other
outcomes we call it the five nines right
right no not me no not now no not you no
not never right and then there's a fifth
note which is you just don't get into
the conversation but each and every
single one of those knows has unique
data and unique value the proprietary
now I take that proprietary information
I can turn it into more Dynamic
messaging or I can change my market
hypothesis but I've got Intimacy in my
feedback I simply don't have if I've got
a purely digital strategy here's a quick
rebuttal to that oh go on Sam uh hat tip
Josh Braun rather than reaching out
people cold invite prospects into your
inbound engine so if you host a podcast
and let's say we target Chief marketing
officers let's start a warm conversation
with that let's invite them into a
useful session over time let's nurture
our LinkedIn content our video content
and when they're ready they'll require
our websites when was the last time you
listened to a podcast and immediately
bought from that person or bought from
them within a month
within a month
a couple times
in an example give me a real life
example please please do it of course it
doesn't work that fast we're talking
about creating demand it's the same as a
cold cool right like it's it's pretty
rare you're going to get someone right
here right now in that buying window no
but here's the point right here's the
point but it happens and the point is
you you absolutely not going to Coke or
something book a meeting and they buy
tomorrow but if I've got 10 grand a
month from a standing start and I want
to drive Revenue in I'm not coming down
come and listen to my podcast route I'm
sorry I'm not I can see the value of the
podcast I have a podcast but I tell you
right now it did not take me a month or
two to start generating some revenue
from inviting people onto or listening
to my podcast it took a lot longer and
that adds value to all of our Market
marketing strategy which you know real
life is there's got to be a blend I get
it but if I'm standing start and I've
got money to spend on a channel I'm
going nowhere near podcast now I'll do
that version you know chapter two
chapter three yeah fine but that's not
driving Revenue in faster than than
others strategies that we talked about
today
okay
um so I just want to like
just change this up a little bit you've
both been going pro in your own camps
you know the outbound team pro outbound
inbound Pro inbound obviously that's the
debate we've been uh having I want you
to answer honestly what are the
challenges of your approach what makes
your approach
um you know difficult challenging or
time consuming
um Jerry come on it's four things right
it's the list yes my targeting right is
it the message can I scale it can I make
it consistent and repeatable and have I
got the Reps to deliver it that's the
third problem consciously competent reps
who are not scared of the adversity that
is inherent with an outbound call or
email and then the last one is you know
how do I use the data to manage measure
and improve if I don't get one of those
three to four levers right everything
else falls apart right so when I get my
list right and I over the index my data
my message and my rep
then I can be selling to a revolves
person for example instead of selling to
the CEO when I need to be selling to the
CEO so it's about constant monitoring I
think we've got a lot of sales leaders
in the world who are very very
frightened of monitoring their reps
today to that degree yeah you know go
and do what you want it's a sort of kind
of thing which is why they're always
looking for Alternatives but all
effective outbound is based on the
pillars replist message management right
so those are the things that you need to
make it work
okay and there are limitations with that
um Justin what are the challenges um
with inbound
uh some of the similar things targeting
is a is a big one I mean I think I think
one of the problems with marketing in
general and inbound marketing is uh we
rely you know the company has to have
certain things figured out so
um you're right I think I think the
outbound side could probably have faster
feedback loops and and more
conversations like we have our digital
signals like we can tell what they're
searching for more and what you know
kind of triggers them down the funnel
faster but I think yeah having a human
conversation uh can probably get you
there faster but the targeting is is a
big one the level of knowledge and
awareness I think one of the best cases
for uh outbound versus inbound with
outbound you know winning would be if no
one knows the problem exists like okay
inbound's gonna be pretty hard uh
because then you have to you have to do
some sort of put out there in the world
that there is a problem and maybe that's
outbound maybe like outbound cold
calling or maybe that's you know
LinkedIn ads or you know you have to
push something onto people's in front of
them they didn't passport they didn't
know it existed so I think that could be
a massive problem for inbound if there's
not even awareness of the of the problem
or if that's lacking
um then that's that's really problematic
and then the other thing is you guys are
right like the the time and the runway
sure there is Google search there's a
list there's things you can do to
capture in market and there for a lot of
startups if there's an awareness of the
problem that's enough to get them going
pretty quickly while they build the
other engine underneath
um but it does take time to build that
engine and so I I put on my notes like
when I saw we were going to discuss
speed I was like I'm not that's a that's
a loss for us like because I I honestly
believe that you know I'm okay conceding
that one because this does take time and
I recognize that's that is a drawback
for some people
um and so I would say those are the
three things targeting the level of
awareness in the market that there's
even you know a problem and then the
time Runway to build some of that
um that structure and machine
so very honest they're transparent I
want the same honestly from you Owen
about the challenges of your art
challenge all right then
um do you know Mickey Sydney said to
someone I used to work with in Oz and I
think I've talked about some great
advice from this person before so to me
the problem with sales is most people
most people can't do it and I think
that's just the reality is going back to
Sam's Point earlier and you know I'm not
saying this about you Sam but making
five fifty Cocos and getting hold of
getting hold of nobody most people will
stop at that point and you know I always
think of the the digging for gold and
you stop about that far but before you
get before the goal because you give up
and we're not built as humans psychology
wise to deal with rejection to deal with
boredom and that is a part of selling
right you go into meetings whether it's
face to face or cold calling and you get
rejected you get told no you don't get
the phone answered and it takes a
certain psychology to be able to do that
day in day out week in week out and that
is a barrier to entry for the channel
without a doubt so you know I think
there are other barriers to entry for in
around the ability to write content
create copy be creative all that kind of
stuff but that's one that always stands
out for you for sales that you can
employ people that just simply cannot do
the job or will not be able to do the
job or won't have the psychological
makeup to want to do it every day and
it's probably you know some sometimes
because they haven't got the resilience
sometimes it's because they're lazy and
it is hard work right that's you know it
is not easy to just keep talking to
people all day and having those
conversations it's tiring at the end of
the day of cold calling I am tired I
don't think I would be that tired if I
was
um don't get a sound for seizures if I
was creating ads or if I was writing
content or copy I just don't because
it's not as physically exhausting and
draining so that is that is a fact I
think the other piece is the data is
such a critical part of getting outbound
cold calling right and data is a very
very difficult market so if I want a
really good dialer sales sales
engagement tool
um if I want a really good uh piece of
software for for marketing to distribute
my content they all exist and they do
exactly what I want them to do and I'm
off and running connector is a great
example of a cold call itself it does
what it says on the tin I use it it
makes me go faster it's brilliant but if
I want to just go and find perfect data
a list of people that are perfect to
call it doesn't exist and the the
advantage with inbound marketing or
marketing is that you're not worried
about that it's not in front of you you
don't have to deal with it on a
case-by-case scenario but of course
within sales you're dealing with that oh
that data's not perfect that person's
left the company and I think there's
some negative stuff in there that can
get in the way so it always comes back
to me to that psychology piece as a
human we are pushing ourselves through
uncomfortable barriers whereas to
Justin's Point earlier again being a bit
facetious but there's some truth in
there I can sit back and if it's working
it's working
um once I get to a certain point with
inbound thank you for sharing Owen um
Sam yeah oh I agree with all those
points all decent points um so just to
add to Justin really assuming you've got
product Market fit if there isn't
existing demand like Justin said I if
people aren't aware of a certain problem
or if people aren't product aware that
there is a product or service that fixes
this problem you're facing then things
like paid search organic search review
sites Etc aren't going to be that useful
so you're going to have to look at
actually educating the market that's
where things like LinkedIn podcast Etc
kick in to play I just want to put a
pause on things and go to the audience
um Isabelle Zach Ryan JD Blake
um
told me there's all sorts of people
coming in with comments like not what
your preference of channel is who but
the question is who won today's debate
outbound for Jerry Hill and Owen
Richards comment outbound for Jerry Hill
and Owen Richards comment inbound for
Sam and Justin so let's see in the
comments who do you feel one today's
debate and there you have it I hope you
enjoyed today's episode which is quite a
bit different from our usual style of
episodes to mix it up a bit as always if
you did enjoy it click subscribe on
YouTube or review and rating on your
audio podcast channel is very much
appreciated and with that I should catch
you on the next one cheers